---
layout: default
title: Section 3
---

3\. Ex fenestris villae undas spectas. Undas 
caeruleas amo. Quam magnae sunt, quam perlucidae! 
Post cenam lunam et stellas ex fenestra mea specto. 
Prope villam est silva, ubi cum amita mea saepe 
ambulo. Quantopere nos silva delectat! O copiam 
plantarum et herbarum! O copiam bacarum! Non 
solum nautae sed etiam agricolae circum habitant. 
Casae agricolarum parvae sunt. Nautae casas albas 
habitant. Amita mea casas agricolarum et nautarum 
saepe visitat.

### Preparations

ex fenestrīs | *out of (or from) the windows*
undās spectās | *thou seest (you see) the waves*
caeruleās | *blue*
quam magnae sunt | *how big they are*
per lūcidae | *transparent* (lucid)
post cēnam | *after supper*
lūnam spectō | *I see the moon*
stellās | *the stars*
ex fenestrā meā | *from my window*
prope villam | *near the country house*
silva | *a wood*
saepe | *often*
ambulō | *I walk*
quantopere | *how much*
nōs dēlectat | *delights us*
ō cōpiam | *oh the abundance*
plantārum | *of plants*
herbārum | *of grasses, of herbs*
bācārum | *of berries*
nōn sōlum | *not only* (solely)
sed etiam | *but also*
agricolae | *farmers*
circum | *around*
habitant | *dwell*
casae | *the cottages*
agricolārum | *of the farmers*
parvae | *small*
casās albās habitant | *inhabit white cottages*
casās vīsitat | *visits the cottages*

[Quizlet set](https://quizlet.com/_2e6ubk) and 
[Quizlet without accents](https://quizlet.com/_2ebb31)

---

Compare the Singular and Plural forms of the word 'amita' 
in the following sentences : 

* Amita mea casās vīsitat. *My aunt visits cottages.*
  * Amitae meae casās vīsitant. *My aunts visit cottages.* 
* Amitam meam amo. *I love my aunt.*
  * Amitas meas amo. *I love my aunts.*
* Amitae meae villa est bella. *My aunt's country-house is pretty.* 
  * Amitarum mearum villae sunt bellae. *My aunts' 
country-houses are pretty.*
* Cum amita mea ambulo. *I walk with my aunt.* 
  * Cum amitis meis ambulo. *I walk with my aunts.*


Notice that the forms in -am (Singular) and -as (Plural) occur 

1. after certain Prepositions : 
 * ante ianuam, *before the door*; 
 * post cenam, *after supper*; 
 * prope villam, *near the house*; 
 * inter ferias, *during the holidays.*
2. without any Preposition, to complete the sense with certain 
Verbs. The form in -am or -as is then called the Object of the 
Verb. In the following sentences it will be seen that the forms 
in -am and -as differ in meaning from those in -a and -ae just 
as *me* differs from *I* (or '*him*,' '*them*,' '*whom*,' from 'he,' 
'they,' 'who') in English : — 


*I* | *love* | *sailors*
Ego | amo | **nautas.**
*Sailors* | *love* | *me.*
**Nautae** | amant | me. 
*The maid-servant* | *prepares* | *supper.*
**Ancilla** | parat | **cenam.**
*Sailors* | *inhabit* | *white cottages.*
**Nautae** | habitant | **casas albas.**

---

### Drill Exercises p104

§ 3. (Ablative Plural.) 

 * Scaphae in undis sunt. 
 * Undae sub scaphis sunt 
 * In scaphis sunt nautae. 
 * Procella est : undae non caeruleae sunt. 
 * Nautae in undis non caeruleis navigant. 
 * Nautae in casis albis habitant. 

---

 * Sailors often sail in boats. 
 * I often sail with the sailors. 
 * Not far from the windows of the cottages are the waves of the 
sea-shore. <a name="num1"></a>
 * My aunt is often[<sup>1</sup>](#footnotes) in the cottages of the farmers. <a name="num2"></a>
 * There-is[<sup>2</sup>](#footnotes) a wood not far from the cottages of the farmers. 

---

§ 3 continued. {Accusative Singular and Plural after a Pre- 
position ) 

 * Ante villam est arena. 
 * Ante casas nautarum est ora mariiima. 
 * Ora maritima prope villam amitae meae est. 
 * Prope casas agricolarum est silva. 
 * Post cenam in scapha non navigo. 
 * Post ferias procul ab ora maritima habito. 

---

 * Before the door of the country-house is the sand of the sea-shore. 
 * Near the wood are the cottages of the farmers. 
 * During the holidays I sometimes sail in boats. <a name="num3"></a>
 * After the holidays I do not stay[<sup>3</sup>](#footnotes) in the country-house of my aunt. 
 * Before the holidays I do not sail in boats. 

---

§ 3 continued. (Accusative Singular and Plural depending on a 
Verb.) 

 * Villam ex ora maritima specto. 
 * Fenestras villae ex ora maritima specto. 
 * In arena scapham et ancoras et catenas specto. 
 * In silva plantas et herbas specto. 
 * Plantas et herbas amo : bacas amo. 
 * Nautae casas albas amant. 
 * Casae albae nautas delectant. 

---

<a name="num4"></a>

 * I love the sand.[<sup>4</sup>](#footnotes)
 * I love the sand of the sea-shore. 
 * I love boats and anchors and chains 
 * Waves delight sailors. 
 * Plants delight my aunt. 
 * My aunt loves sailors and farmers. 
 * From the windows of the cottages the sailors see the waves. 
 * Boats delight sailors : sailors love boats. 
 * Before the holidays I do not see boats and the sea-shore. 



---

Complete the following sentences by inserting a Verb. 

Oram maritimam <span style="text-decoration: underline; white-space: pre;">                   </span>.

Ora maritima nos <span style="text-decoration: underline; white-space: pre;">                   </span>. 

Scaphas albas <span style="text-decoration: underline; white-space: pre;">                   </span>. 


Scaphae interdum caeruleae <span style="text-decoration: underline; white-space: pre;">                   </span>. 

Ora maritima <span style="text-decoration: underline; white-space: pre;">                   </span> bella. 

---

Complete the following sentences by inserting a Preposition in the 
first place and a Verb in the second.

<span style="text-decoration: underline; white-space: pre;">                   </span> arena <span style="text-decoration: underline; white-space: pre;">                   </span> scaphae.

<span style="text-decoration: underline; white-space: pre;">                   </span> oram maritimam nautas <span style="text-decoration: underline; white-space: pre;">                   </span>.

Agricolae <span style="text-decoration: underline; white-space: pre;">                   </span> silvam <span style="text-decoration: underline; white-space: pre;">                   </span>. 

<span style="text-decoration: underline; white-space: pre;">                   </span> nautis interdum <span style="text-decoration: underline; white-space: pre;">                   </span>. 

<span style="text-decoration: underline; white-space: pre;">                   </span> agricolis interdum <span style="text-decoration: underline; white-space: pre;">                   </span>.

---

After § 3. Conversation. (Quid = what.) 

Q. Quid ex fenestra spectas ? 

A. Ex fenestra undas et cram maritimam specto. 

Q. Oram maritimam amas ? 

A. Oram maritimam amo. Undae me delectant. 

Q. Silvam non amas ? 

A. Silvam amo. Silva me delectat. 

Q. In silva interdum ambulas ? 

A. In silva saepe ambulo. 

Q. Ubi est silva ? 

A. Silva non procul a villa est. 

Q. Quid est in silva? 

A. In silva est copia plantarum et herbarum.

Q. Bacas non amas?

A. Quantopere me bacae delectant!

---

<a name="footnotes"></a> 

[1](#num1) See [Rule 2 (Order of Words).]({{ site.baseurl }}/rules)

[2](#num2) 'There-is' and 'there-are' must be translated simply by the verb: say 
not far from the cottages is a wood. 

[3](#num3) 'I do not stay' is an English way of saying 'I stay not' ; in Latin there 
will be only one word for 'I do stay,' and the word for 'not' must come before 
it, (For 'stay' say live. ) Similarly in the next sentence 'I do not sail.' 

[4](#num4) **Order of Words, Rule 3.** — Put the Accusative before the Verb on 
which it depends. 


