---
layout: default
title: Solutions to section 2
gloss: true
---

# Translation of section 2

<div data-gloss>
<p>Feriae nunc sunt.</p>
<p>Holidays now are.</p>
</div>

<div data-gloss>
<p>Inter ferias in {villa maritima} habito.</p>
<p>During holidays in {sea-side house} {I live.}</p>
</div>

<div data-gloss> 
<p>O beatas ferias!</p>
<p>O happy holidays!</p>
</div>

<div data-gloss>
<p>In arena {orae maritimae} sunt ancorae et catenae.</p>
<p>On {the sand} {of the sea shore} are anchors and chains.</p>
</div>

<div data-gloss>
<p>Nam incolae {orae maritimae} sunt nautae.</p>
<p>For inhabitants {of the sea-shore} are sailors.</p>
</div>

<div data-gloss>
<p>Magna est audacia nautarum : procellas non formidant.</p>
<p>Great is {the courage} {of the sailors} : storms not {they fear.}</p>
<p class="gloss__line--free">The courage of the sailors is great : They don't fear storms.</p>
</div>

<div data-gloss>
<p>Nautas amo, ut nautae me amant.</p>
<p>Sailors {I love,} as sailors me {they love.}</p>
<p class="gloss__line--free">I love the sailors as the sailors love me.</p>
</div>

<div data-gloss>
<p>Cum nautis interdum in scaphis navigo.</p>
<p>With sailors sometimes in boats {I sail.}</p>
</div>

---

# Drill Exercises

ยง 2. [Nominative Plural.) 

<div data-gloss>
<p>Scaphae non procul a villa sunt.</p>
<p>Boats not far from {the country-house} are.</p>
</div>

<div data-gloss>
<p>Feriae sunt beatae.</p>
<p>Holidays are happy.</p>
</div>

<div data-gloss>
<p>Beatae sunt feriae.</p>
<p>Happy are holidays.</p>
</div>

<div data-gloss
<p>Magnae sunt procellae in ora maritima.</p>
<p>Great are storms in coast sea.</p>
</div>

<div data-gloss>
<p>Nautae procul ab ora maritima sunt.</p>
<p>Sailors near from coast sea are.</p>
</div> 

<div data-gloss>
<p>Nautae in scapha sunt.</p>
<p>Sailors in boats are.</p>
</div>

<div data-gloss>
<p>Scapha non magna est.</p>
<p>{A boat} not big is.</p>
</div>

---

<div data-gloss>
<p>Where are {the boats?}</p>
<p>Ubi sunt scaphae?</p>
</div>

<div data-gloss>
<p>The boats are on {the sand.}</p>
<p>Scaphae sunt in arena.</p>
</div>

<div data-gloss>
<p>Sailors live not far from {the sand} {of the sea-shore.}</p>
<p>Nautae habitant non procul ab arena {orae maritimae.}</p>
</div>

<div data-gloss>
<p>{I sometimes sail} in {a boat} with {a sailor.}</p>
<p>Interdum navigo in scapha cum nauta.</p>
</div>

<div data-gloss>
<p>Chains are in {the boat.}</p>
<p>Catenae sunt in scapha.</p>
</div>

<div data-gloss>
<p>Anchors and chains are on {the sea-shore.}</p>
<p>Ancorae et catenae sunt in {ora maritima.}</p>
</div>

---

ยง2 continued. {Genitive Plural.) 

<div data-gloss>
<p>Scaphae nautarum interdum magnae sunt.</p>
<p>{The boats} {of the sailors} sometimes big are.</p>
</div>

<div data-gloss>
<p>Ancorae {scapharum magnarum} {magnae sunt.}</p>
<p>Anchors {of the great boats} {are great.}</p>
</div>

<div data-gloss>
<p>Ancorae {scapharum non magnarum} {non magnae sunt.}</p>
<p>Anchors {of the not-great boats} {are not great.}</p>
</div>

---

<div data-gloss>
<p>{The boats} {of the sailors} are not far from {the door} {of the country house.}</p>
<p>Scaphae nautarum sunt non procul ab janua villae.</p>
</div>

<div data-gloss>
<p>{The anchors} {of the boats} are on {the sand.}</p>
<p>Ancorae scapharum sunt in arena.</p>
</div>

<div data-gloss>
<p>{The anchors} and {the chains} {of the anchors} are on {the sand.}</p>
<p>Ancorae et catenae ancorarum sunt in arena.</p>
</div>

<div data-gloss>
<p>The inhabitants {of country-houses} are not sailors.</p>
<p>Incolae villarum {non sunt} nautae.</p>
</div>

The courage of the inhabitants of the sea-shore is great. 

